	Installing the Linux executables for IMACS mask generation

This is the distribution of executable Linux software for making 
I.M.A.C.S. slit masks.  This distribution consists of:

Executable Linux binaries:
	intgui  maskgen  maskcut  ncplot  smdfplt 
Data files used by the above:
	opticdef.dat  maskcut.cfg  pmap.dat
Documentation
	README (this file) how to install the software
	mginstr.txt  how to use the software
	faq.txt      Frequently Asked Questions (read before asking)
	catdata.txt  example of and explanation of object catalog data
	obsfile.txt  explains the ".obs" file used by maskgen
	smdfile.txt  explains the ".SMF" file produced by maskgen
	config.txt   explains configuration parameters and data files
Useful scripts
	getlsi       used to get new distributions (see below)
	mgclean      deletes files generated from user input
	obscat       used to create observing catalog entries

In addition to this software distribution, use of "skywin" requires that
several star catalogs be present, usually in the ./gcats/ directory, or
a directory of your choice.  Symbolic links to the actual catalogs
are permitted and recommended, since the actual catalogs take up about
4.4 Gigabytes of disk, and are often stored on another drive.
Set the environment name CATPATH to the directory in which these
star catalogs are installed.
To get these star catalogs, see below.

The distribution is a compressed tar file, "lsi.tgz", or for Mac-OSX
a file named "msi.tgz".  Copy it to the directory of your choice, and
extract the contents using a command of the form:
    > gtar  xfz  lsi.tgz

The executable programs here will need to be present at least in the
execution path of each user who will be using them.  Their data files
will be needed, or a symbolic to them will be needed wherever the user
is using them.  The best thing to do is to make a symbolic link to the
distributed data files from /usr/local/etc/ or /usr/local/etc/maskgen/.
It is very important to link to the place where you unpack new distributions
so that new data files are used rather than old copies, since changes to
these files are considered part of the new distribution.  As an alternative, 
the environment variable "OPTICDEF" may be defined as the directory name 
where opticdef.dat is stored.  Also, the environment variable "CUTDEF" may 
be defined as the directory name where maskcut.cfg is stored.  The environment 
variable "DEFAULTS" may be defined as the directory name where pmap.dat is 
stored.  And, these needed files or a symbolic link may be in the parent 
directory of the directory in which the programs are used.  See the file
"config.txt" for more details.

The distributed programs are executable images, and are linked with 
dynamic libraries.  Currently libraries needed are:
	libm	libX11	libc	libpthread	libcurl		libcrypto
The first 4 should be quite standard, but the last 2 may be
not yet installed on your system.  You will need to install them, or ask 
your system manager to do so.  All are distributed with your linux system.

The documentation files may be stored in any location where they can be
conveniently referred to by users.  PLEASE, please, read the documentation
files.  Read "faq.txt" before asking those questions again, especially
the first one.  Really, read it!

All of these programs, data files and documentation are in current
development.  This distribution is only a snapshot of an evolving set
of software and information.  Things will change, and new things will
be added.  Often these changes will be documented, sometimes not.
Some major changes will be announced, minor ones will not, but the
file dates will show that things are changing.

Users are encouraged to obtain new distributions in a timely manner,
at least prior to using the software for making masks to be used in
any actual observing run.  Fixes and new features appear approximately
on a monthly basis.  With release 2.0, users are reminded at the start
of each program whether their software is current or in need of update.

Also, if you experience any problems or errors in using any of the
programs, get the latest version, distribute the files to their
locations in your use, and try again.  That way, you can say "yes" 
when I ask if you have the latest distribution.

The current location for the official distributions of software is:
	ftp  ftp.obs.carnegiescience.edu
	user: anonymous
	binary
	cd   pub/clardy
	get  lsi.tgz  (or desired release version*)

The script "getlsi" in this distribution will do this automatically;
please edit the password field in the script for your institution
domain name.  The script may then be placed anywhere in your path, and
run from the directory into which you wish the lsi.tgz file downloaded.
There is also a distribution msi.tgz for users of the Mac-OS-X system.

*Several versions are available, under names of the form "lsxVX.tgz"
where in the VX is an Operating System version and CPU hardware
abbreviation.  The X part is wither "s" for 32 bit CPU or "x" for 64 bit.
The V part is "r" (redhat 9), "3" (Fedora 3), "5" (Fedora 5), 
"8" (Fedora 8) or "D" (Fedora 13).  The older ones will probably not
be available as time goes by...

You can also find some documentation, and pointers to the distribution
files at:  http://users.obs.carnegiescience.edu/clardy/imacs/maskmaking.html

The star catalogs:

The "skywin" feature of interface GUI uses a set of star catalogs which
have been slightly compressed and reformatted from the publicly available
source data.  These are not expected to change at all, which means they
may be downloaded once and stored in a central location.

The star catalog distribution is over 4 Gigabytes of data.  It is
possible to download this overnight in two tar files of about 2 
Gigabytes each.  Downloading takes about 2 hours for each file.  A link
in the maskmaking.html page (above) will show how to do it.

If you have an internet connection and need to make only a few masks,
and don't want to download the catalogs, the catalog information is
available over the internet from obs.canrnegiescience.edu; if local
catalogs are not found, an internet request will be automatically made,
and the data saved locally for future use.  This download may take a
minute or two when done the first time.  Guide stars are absolutely
required to cut an IMACS mask.

